---
language: english
title: "Sunrise at Mt. Rainier"
translator: "Jayanthi Gowrishankaran"
sourceUrl: "https://seattledesikids.blogspot.com/2023/05/sunrise-at-mt-rainier.html"
fetchedAt: "2026-02-28"
---

Early in the morning, at 3 am, we started trekking up the mountain to witness the sunrise. When friends asked about managing the three-hour early morning sleep, traveling in darkness, and the cold weather on Seattle's mountain, numerous questions scared me. However, the opportunity to trek with friends and the rarity of the experience convinced me to go. Some said they would come with their families, while others decided to bring only their children. The journey from their homes to the foothills took around two and a half hours. We all reached the foothills at 3 am, having started from home at midnight. The trip consumed our entire night's sleep. As planned, we met at midnight and embarked on the journey in two cars, searching for a 24-hour coffee shop. Conversing to keep sleep at bay, the experience of driving at night was new to me.

The distant lights of the cars behind blinked in our eyes, while the long and winding empty road ahead awakened us from drowsiness. The lane warning cautionary sounds added to the unique experience. Dense cities and independent houses in the suburbs indicated that we had left the city limits. I managed to stay awake during the three-hour drive, while the children slept intermittently, sometimes on the bed and other times in their car seats.

The mountain greeted us with a sign that read, "The National Forests welcome you." To enter Mt. Rainier National Park, we needed to purchase entry tickets. Fortunately, we had bought the passes earlier by paying $30. It was confusing because there were three different passes required for Discovery Park, Northwest Park, and Mt. Rainier Mountain.

The long and winding road was adorned with natural beauty. Surprisingly, numerous cars were already parked, and people were enjoying nature at such an early hour. We reached the Sunrise Visitor Center as planned at 3 am. We were the first car to park there. After enduring the 6,400 feet ascent, we were unable to continue driving and had to proceed on foot.

A gentle, cool breeze caressed us as we stood beneath the majestic white Mt. Rainier. The sky sparkled with bright stars. We prepared ourselves with cold protection gear, including gloves, caps, and heavy snow jackets. Despite our preparations, the cold wind penetrated deep into our skin. One by one, we all reached the summit, and Jai earned our gratitude by serving hot "malli" (dry coriander powder extract coffee) to everyone.

A small light visible on the mountain was the trekkers' headlamps, which excited all of us. In the eastern sky, a bright star or planet caught our attention. Some speculated that it was a plane, while others believed it to be a star. However, a few claimed it was a planet and referred to it as the morning star. Stars adorned the sky, creating a musical spectacle that resembled the beauty of an unknown language.

Some campers who had spent the night there requested us to speak softly or move farther away, as our noise disrupted their sleep. That's when we realized that people had come and were sleeping there. We instructed the children to speak softly and continued our journey. There were many paths to choose from, and we opted for the Fremont Lookout. The moonlit road, roughened with stones and sand, required the use of our flashlights and headlamps. Darkness became an experience in itself, limiting our vision to only two feet ahead. Towering mountains, short shrubs, and ground creepers dotted the landscape. The bare mountains devoid of trees and the chilling wind provided a unique experience. People moved in an orderly fashion, like ants walking in a row atop the hills, holding lights in their hands. It was a new experience, where darkness and distant lights created a unique ambiance.

The path we chose was a single-lane trail with valleys on the side, making us realize the potential dangers of the trek. Even in darkness, the mountain appeared bright and beautiful. However, our cameras couldn't capture the true essence of what our eyes witnessed.

We walked for two hours, traversing through snowfall, rocky roads, and sandy paths. Although the trek was said to be about a mile and a half, it felt longer to us. Eventually, we covered a distance of 5.6 miles round trip, with an elevation gain of 1,200 feet. As time passed, darkness bid farewell, and we switched off our lights. Darkness and light have various forms, and our eyes adjusted to the darkness. The grand valley and the magnificent white beauty of Mt. Rainier, accompanied by the gentle noise of walking on rocky terrain, calmed our minds into a meditative state. Surrounded by the natural beauty, both physically and mentally, we felt a sense of lightness. Parents took pride in carrying their children on their shoulders and revelled in the joys of showing nature.

The Cascadia Mountains and Mount Adams were visible as far as the eyes could see. Sunrise appeared behind the mountain peaks, and sunlight illuminated hundreds of peaks. Our cameras struggled to capture the vastness beyond a few ranges. Mountains, valleys, a lovely greenarium, and at the center stood Mount Rainier, adorned with snow patches everywhere. Our eyes delighted in the breathtaking scenery.

At the summit, away from the path we trekked, we observed a magnificent valley below, filled with greenery. Mountains, peaks and clouds adorned the surroundings. With this picturesque setting, the sun slowly walked majestically, providing a visual treat. We tried to capture the beauty in our pictures, but it was like trying to hold sea water in our hands. Our desires for capturing nature's essence were endless. Mountains, clouds, and nature selfies with all the elements excited us. Dawn danced with its usual grandeur, and we eagerly awaited the moment when Mt. Rainier would turn red with the rays of the sun. Unfortunately, the clouds obstructed our view, but we did catch glimpses of red reflections on other mountain peaks.

After taking a break to enjoy some berries and snacks we had brought, and playing in the snow for a while, we began our descent. The path we had walked in the dark revealed its beauty under the bright sunlight. Every spot was a photo opportunity, serving as a reminder of the best moments of nature's beauty. Frozen snow covered the ground for about three feet, a half-frozen lake and a small lake in the distance, beautiful wild flowe rbeds, rocky terrains, uprooted trees, winding paths, and people moving like dolls along the roads. It was so beautiful that one's heart would hesitate to leave such a place.

Although our legs and knees grew tired, our mental energy remained intact. Some kind Samaritans offered us tea with jaggery, which served as an elixir in the cold climate, rejuvenating our fatigued bodies. The children thoroughly enjoyed the experience. Those few hours of pure joy would be cherished as lifelong memories. With this happiness, we began our return journey. Near the entrance of Mt. Rainier, we were surprised to see hundreds of vehicles. Luckily, having arrived in the early hours of the morning, we managed to avoid the wait. However, The lack of sleep started catching up to us, so I grabbed a hot coffee at Starbucks to ward off sleepiness. As we chatted about our experience, we happily made our way back home.
